Exceed is a skill-based fantasy tabletop role-playing game using polyhedral dice. 
The Game Master, like in most TTRPGs sets the scenes, and represents the characters who are not the players (NPCs), the monsters, and the world as a whole.
Game is designed to be played in group of three to six players, but should work with 1-2 players as well.

**Core Philosophy** of the game can be best observed in how it handles [[3. Character Creation and Point buy Costs|Character Development]], [[6. Magic System|Magic]] and many other mechanics in the game. 
e.g. 
**Bottom-Up Character Development**: Instead of saying "You're strong, so you're good at athletics," Exceed asks "Why are you strong?", instead of saying "You are good with combat so your good with swinging." it asks "What maneuvers and training made you good?".

Character growth follows logical story progression: training something narrow makes you better at adjacent things and builds pockets of specialization that allow you to exceed the narrow confines of many other systems. A skilled swordsman won't be utterly useless given another weapon, unless you want him to, of course.

The game emphasizes player agency, tactical depth, and character development connected to the character progression. Rather than starting with predetermined classes putting you on a rails, the characters grow organically during the games through learning perks, getting flaws and rising through organizations to something you were not expecting them to be. 


## Flow
Game is played in sessions, and is designer to work for campaigns spreading multiple sessions, and isn't well designed for one-shot adventures due to the crunchy nature of its systems. 
It requires some background calculations to remove the tracking that comes with the system, that is why, using an application or VTT (when that will be available in the future) is advised. 

# Tools
The game doesn't provide printed rules and character sheets, using digital ones instead, currently publicly hosted online. Thus a device is required. 

For a in-person game a set of dice including two ten sided dice are required, preferably for each player, but dice rollers are fine as well.
For combat it is preferred to have miniatures, but theater of mind and vtt are or will be viable as well.

In future iterations, distance might be counted using a ruler as main distance calculation option, but that is up to playtesting. 

# Game for a few
In Exceed we believe in gate-keeping the fun, because when something belongs to everyone - it belongs to no one. This game belongs to me.
This game allows diversity of builds and play-styles, it does not engage in modern identity-based themes and contemporary social commentary neither in its mechanics, nor in the narratives. 
When it does - it follows the classical narratives and eschews post-modern ones. It is obvious from its game design, but I am just spelling it out.

If you feel uncomfortable - leave, there are games for [Everyone]([https://example.com](https://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=2000)) out there. This isn't one.

# Ready to play?
Get your phones/tablets/laptops/PCs out and proceed to the [[2. Core Resolution System|Basic rules]]. Go through them in an ordered manner.