The maps in Exceed are defined in Lines and Zones. Maps can be used with or without grid as distances are tracked with lines, so no map, or a map on a napkin would work as well as any other map.

A creature’s position amounts to two things: the creature’s whereabouts (what Zone it is in), and who it’s contending or shielding with in melee.(Skirmish)
# Zones and Skirmishes 
Within a zone, you can get into [[Skirmish]] with an enemy or an ally with a single [[Engage]] action, followed by an attack or other offensive ability. 

When you are engaging an enemy or an ally or an enemy or an ally [[Engage]]s you, you engage all the targets in the [[Skirmish]].

On a tactical map put your token on your side of the encounter and enemy next to yourself. If enemy is in a skirmish already, put your token on your side of the skirmish. That doesn't represent the real positioning.
# Strength in numbers 
Having a numerical disadvantage within a skirmish provides -1 to deflect and dodge rolls per difference to the defender capped at -4.

Reach and Range weapons allow attacking without entering the skirmish, the attacks count the attacker for the benefit of numeric advantage.

To disengage from the [[Skirmish]] you need to perform a [[Disengage]] action. Trying to Leave the [[Skirmish]] with or without a [[Disengage]] action can interact with an ability of an effect. 

## Zone capacity.
Zones can have a capacity, when reached leading to a [[Crowded]] effect, moving everyone into one skirmish.
Zones can't physically hold more than double its capacity.

### Duel Zones
Duel zones are ones that can hold only 2 combatants of opposing factions in a skirmish. Trying to pass through will require a check of GMs specification (TBD MS8-9, for now a check with defender having +4, or a free attack with no defense). 

# Lines
Lines represent the distance between zones and have a statistic of distance and effects on them.
Distance * Multipliers from Effects = Cost of traversal. To calculate how much actions you need to move from Zone A to Zone B, take the Cost / speed and ceiling it. i.e. Actions=Distance * Multiplier/Speed.
Advised to GM to write the costs on the map next to the line to keep track of the effects.

# Line and Zone Effects
As mentioned above, lines and zones can hold effects on them.
Enviornmental, situational or magical some can be removed, suppressed or bypassed with an abilities explicitly stating that and with checks or improvisation approved by the GM.
Examples:
Line is a wall, requiring DC 15 climbing check and distance 10.
*"Hey GM, i want to cast levitate on the group"/"Hey GM, i want to be a big guy and help others climp by jump starting them"/"Hey GM, can I throw my rope dart and climb that way"*
*"Cast the spell/Lower the DC by 5 if you spend your whole turn on this/Add an extra AP, and reduce DC by 3."*

Lines should cost no more than 20 in the late game and no more than 10 in early game.


Most Effects are doing one of the followings
Lines
1. Modified cost - keeping the same distance the cost one way or both ways is altered. Example - going uphill, or through mud, or even a spell helping to cross faster for allies.
2. Checks to cross. - You need to succeed a check to cross to the other Zone. (Iced ladders, uphill, etc) - you can use abilities or roll a check to bypass.
3. Hazardous check  - like a check, but provides damage on a failure.
4. Barrier - requires a breaking check or sufficient amount of damage.
5. Enemies - you and your enemies can create all of the above assuming you have the means.

Zones
1. Defensive advantage - the party that controls the zone against the invaders can have bonuses.(For things like defensive cover)
2. Hazardous zone - e.g. everything is on fire, everyone in the zone is taking damage/rolling endure/resist.
3. Ability modifiers. Zone can have a penalty for all perception rolls - e.g. filled with smoke. Have a sticky floor - agility penalties. Reduced gravity and MANY more.
4. Different magical effects - like healing, buffing team, harming specific types of creatures, etc. 
